Hi there, glad to have you back!
You're halfway done with the first course,
so you're making great progress.
In this section,
we'll discuss how organizations protect
themselves from threats, risks, and
vulnerabilities by covering key principles
such as: frameworks, controls, and ethics.
To help you better understand how this
relates to the role of a security analyst,
we'll use an analogy.
Imagine you want to plant a garden.
You research, plan, prepare,
and purchase materials while
considering all the things that could
potentially present a risk to your garden.
You establish a plan to pull weeds,
spray for bugs,
and water your plants regularly
to prevent issues or incidents.
But as the days go by,
unexpected problems arise.
The weather has been unpredictable and
pests have been aggressively
trying to infiltrate your garden.
You start implementing better ways to
safeguard your garden by installing
a surveillance camera,
building a fence, and
covering your plants with a canopy to
keep your garden healthy and growing.
Now that you have a better idea
about the threats to your garden and
how to keep your plants safe,
you establish better policies and
procedures to continuously monitor and
safeguard your garden.
In this way, security resembles a garden.
It's an evolving industry that will
challenge you to make continuous
improvements to policies and procedures
that help protect your organization and
the people it serves.
To that end, we'll
introduce security frameworks and
controls and
explain why they're important.
We'll also cover core components and
specific examples of frameworks and
controls, including the Confidentiality,
Integrity, and
Availability Triad, or CIA Triad.
We'll end with the discussion
about the ethics of security and
share a few notable ethical
concerns in the security field.
Evolving security practices may
seem a little abstract, but
many of us use them every day.
For example, I use security keys,
which are a type of security control,
as a second form of authentication
to access my accounts.
The keys ensure that only
I can access my accounts,
even if a password has been compromised.
By improving confidentiality,
they also assure me that the integrity
of my accounts is intact.
Having processes and procedures in
place to organize security efforts and
make informed decisions is important for
any organization.
I'm so excited to get started,
and I hope you are too!